Change Elasticseach support and upgrade process (#253)
artefactual/archivematica-docs: admin-manual/installation-setup/upgrading/upgrading.rst

.. _upgrade-search-indices:

Upgrade Elasticsearch and search indexes
----------------------------------------

.. note::

   Ignore this section if you are planning to run Archivematica without search
   indexes. Instead, follow the instructions on :ref:`how to upgrade
   Archivematica in indexless mode <upgrade-indexless>`.

Archivematica |release| uses Elasticsearch 6.x as its search engine. If you're
upgrading from Archivematica 1.8.x or lower, where Elasticsearch 1.x was the
supported version, it's required to upgrade your Elasticsearch cluster and
indexes to the new version.

To complete this upgrade is important to know if you have access to your
transfer backlog and AIP storage locations in the local filesystem.
Respectively, these usually are located in the following paths:

* :file:`/var/archivematica/sharedDirectory/www/AIPsStore/transferBacklog`
* :file:`/var/archivematica/sharedDirectory/www/AIPsStore`

You should confirm the paths of your installation in the Location tab of the
Storage Service.

> If you have access to those locations, the recommended method for the upgrade is

Reviewer: We should include here something like "and the space used is less than 1 terabyte" or something like that, so the reindex method is not used when big aipstores are in place.

Author: Good point @scollazo!

After the discussion about changing the maintenance section I have moved the command details to that page and linked them from here. I have added notices in both places about the duration of those commands for big storage locations, but I think we should avoid adding an specific storage size.

.. _upgrade-search-indices:

Upgrade Elasticsearch and search indexes
----------------------------------------

.. note::

   Ignore this section if you are planning to run Archivematica without search
   indexes. Instead, follow the instructions on :ref:`how to upgrade
   Archivematica in indexless mode <upgrade-indexless>`.

Archivematica |release| uses Elasticsearch 6.x as its search engine. If you're
upgrading from Archivematica 1.8.x or lower, where Elasticsearch 1.x was the
supported version, it's required to upgrade your Elasticsearch cluster and
indexes to the new version.

> To complete this upgrade is important to know if you have access to your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To complete this upgrade it is important to know if you have access to your
```

transfer backlog and AIP storage locations in the local filesystem.

> Respectively, these usually are located in the following paths:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are usually located in the following paths:
```

* :file:`/var/archivematica/sharedDirectory/www/AIPsStore/transferBacklog`
* :file:`/var/archivematica/sharedDirectory/www/AIPsStore`

> You should confirm the paths of your installation in the Location tab of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should confirm the paths of your installation in the Locations tab of the
```

Storage Service.

If you have access to those locations, the recommended method for the upgrade is
to :ref:`recreate the indexes <recreate-indexes>`. Otherwise, you'll need to
:ref:`reindex from another cluster <cluster-reindex>`.

.. _recreate-indexes:

Recreate indexes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Using this method the indexes will be recreated with the new mappings and
settings and populated from the files and database information. This allows you
to upgrade the Elasticsearch instance used in the previous version to 6.x
without taking care of the 1.x indexes data. This process requires to execute

> two commands:

Reviewer 2: Multi-line, so I can't use the suggestion function, but I think you can change this paragraph a bit, for clarity:

```
Using this method, the indexes will be recreated with the new mappings and
settings and will be populated from the files and database information. This will allow you
to upgrade the Elasticsearch instance to 6.x
without having to manage the 1.x index's data. Run the following commands :
```

(I may not have the particulars 100% right but I think I got the general idea...)

* :ref:`Rebuild AIPs indexes <aip-indexes>`
* :ref:`Rebuild Transfers indexes <transfer-indexes>`

.. note::

>    Please notice, the execution of this commands may take a long time for big

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Please notice, the execution of this command may take a long time for big
```

>    AIP and Transfer Backlog storage locations, specially if the AIPs are stored

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   AIP and Transfer Backlog storage locations, especially if the AIPs are stored
```

>    compressed. If that's your case, you may want to give a try to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   compressed. If that is your case, you may want to try the
```

>    :ref:`reindex from another cluster method <cluster-reindex>` bellow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :ref:`reindex from another cluster method <cluster-reindex>`, below.
```

.. _cluster-reindex:

Reindex from another cluster
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you don't have access to the AIP and/or transfer backlog locations, this
method will allow you to upgrade the existing Elasticsearch indexes to the new
version. However, it will require you to setup and configure two Elasticsearch
instances, one using the 1.x version with the existing data and the other
using the 6.x version to hold the new indexes. Archivematica includes a command
to perform this reindex process, which requires a few considerations before its
execution:

#. The ``archivematica_src_elasticsearch_server`` configuration attribute must
   be set to the ES 6.x instance URL.
#. Archivematica must have access to both ES instances:

   #. External access must be enabled in the ES instances if they are not in the
      same machine as Archivematica.

>    #. The command accepts basic auth. parameters to connect to the ES 1.x

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   #. The command accepts basic authentication parameters to connect to the ES 1.x
```

      instance.
   #. The ``archivematica_src_elasticsearch_host`` configuration attribute
      accepts RFC-1738 formatted URLs (e.g.: ``https://user:secret@host:443``).

#. The ES 1.x host has to be white-listed in the ES 6.x "elasticsearch.yaml"
   configuration file (e.g.: reindex.remote.whitelist: "host:9200").
#. The command requires the ES 1.x instance URL (including protocol and port)

>    as the first argument, two optional parameters for basic auth. and other two

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   as the first argument, two optional parameters for basic authentication and two other
```
